# TEAM RULES

## Standard Team Rules.

Subject to Section 2 below, each Team may require its players to abide by the rules set forth in the "Standard Club Rules" annexed as Exhibit G to the 1988 NBA/NBPA Collective Bargaining Agreement. Until the NBA and the Players Association agree on a set of Uniform Team Rules, the NBA and the Players Association agree that such Standard Club Rules constitute "reasonable rules" within the meaning of paragraph 5 of a Uniform Player Contract.

## Uniform Team Rules.

(a) The parties agree that, within 90 days from the execution of this Agreement, they will negotiate for the purpose of establishing a set of Uniform Team Rules that will apply to all Teams, except as provided below.
(b) Any Team may establish a rule or rules supplementing the Uniform Team Rules with respect to matters not covered by the Uniform Team Rules, provided such supplemental rule(s) are in writing and are made available for review by the Players Association no later than the July 31st preceding the training camp period during which they are to become effective. If no timely Grievance objecting to any such supplemental rule(s) is filed by the Players Association with the NBA and the Team establishing such rule(s), such rule(s) shall be deemed to constitute "reasonable rules" within the meaning of paragraph 5 of a Uniform Player Contract. If a timely Grievance with respect to any such supplemental rule(s) is filed by the Players Association, such rule(s) shall not become effective unless and until they are found to constitute reasonable rule(s) by the Grievance Arbitrator.
(c) If a Team seeks to establish a rule or rules that deviate from (rather than supplement) the Uniform 'Team Rules, it must make such non-conforming rule(s) available for review by the Players Association no later than the July 31 st preceding the training camp period during which such rule(s) are to become effective. If no timely Grievance objecting to such non-conforming rule(s) is filed by the Players Association with the NBA and the Team establishing such rule(s), such rule(s) shall be deemed to constitute "reasonable rules" within the meaning of paragraph 5 of a Uniform Player Contract. If a timely Grievance with respect to such non-conforming rule(s) is filed by the Players Association, such rule(s) shall not become effective unless and until they are found to constitute reasonable rule(s) by the Grievance Arbitrator. In any such Grievance, the Team shall have the burden of establishing that its non-conforming rule(s) are reasonable and justified by particular circumstances warranting a departure from the Uniform Team Rules.
